#money
#capitalism

## A Brief Analysis of Money

A basic understanding of the money we use is that money can be exchanged for products or services. In other words, they are claims on future labour. How should this be understood?

Products are also considered outputs of future labour, even though in current times, they are produced concurrently or somewhat in the past, and sometimes have expiry dates. This means that the longer products are stored, the less valuable they are. The immediacy of labour is important. Money as claims on future labour also becomes less valuable with time because labour may not be available for all production or servicing claims at the point of request. This is an indication of the scarcity of labour. This renders money less valuable because we will need to increase the amount we pay for what we’re buying. Hence, money becomes a futurity, whose value does not have an equilibrium unless it is well constructed socially and economically. Of course, given the international nature of money and the different currencies in the world, this may well be an impossibility.

Money was historically based in gold, which is the most valuable commodity in use. Currently, international money is based on the US Dollar, which is a fiat currency and was issued based on gold reserves. As an item of exchange, money could be any currency, commodity or item of value, including digital tokens and corporate entities. This renders money’s function as a store of value volatile. Hence, stores of value are best managed as combinations or portfolios of different types of moneys.  Of course, this will mean that these different types of moneys should exhibit complementary trends that leads to a stably increasing total stored value to take both volatility and inflation into account.  If the choice of managed moneys in our portfolio is not complementary, then the total value of the managed moneys may remain volatile and not compensate for inflation.  

Examples of moneys funds that use complementary assets in their portfolios are mentioned here:
https://www.gic.com.sg/thinkspace/long-term-investing/gic-total-portfolio-approach/





