#real-estate
#singapore
#sustainability
#population

## Extracts from "Sustainable Real Estate in the Developing World" and My Reflections

Given that my country just had some national celebrations, I've taken some time off work to look further into the problem of real estate, the outcome of overpopulation.  I would like to share this extract from the book "Sustainable Real Estate in the Developing World" chapter 1 "Sustainability in Real Estate: Context and Concepts" by Raymond Talinbe Abdulai and Kwasi Gyau Baffour Awuah.  They wrote:

"Given the importance of RE in the global economy, it is not surprising that buildings have come under close scrutiny in the battle to combat climate change impacts at a global scale (Wilkinson et al., 2018). The RE sector as a whole, for instance, uses more energy than any other sector and it is a growing contributor to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (WEF, 2016, cited in Wilkinson et al., 2018). The UNEP notes that, globally, buildings, especially, are responsible for 30% of CO2 emissions, 30–40% of energy consumption, 40–50% of raw material consumption and 25% of wood consumption (UNEP, undated, cited in Paszkowski, 2014). Regarding CO2 emissions, projections suggest that building-related emissions are set to increase by 56% in 2030 (WEF, 2016, cited in Wilkinson et al., 2018). Based on the projections for CO2 emissions, the percentages in the other areas are likely to increase since according to the United Nations, global population currently estimated at 7.7 billion is set to reach 8 billion by 2030 with about 60% of the population living in cities and 10 billion by 2055 (Worldometers, 2019), thereby exerting further growth pressures in the RE sector. It is estimated by the World Economic Forum (WEF, 2016, cited in Wilkinson et al., 2018) that by 2030, the largest 750 cities will require 260 million new homes; 540 million m2 of new office space and 60 million new jobs in industry. However, the highest population growth rates will continue to be in the developing world, accounting for 97% of the increase by 2030: the developing world will see 1.2 billion people added and a 20.7% increase, while the population of the advanced world will increase a mere 3.3% adding 41 million people (Consultancy.uk, 2015)."

In what they wrote, RE stands for Real Estate.  They continued:

"As aptly noted by Wilkinson et al. (2018), these have important implications for climate change, given that at the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris in 2015 (COP21), it was agreed to limit global warming below 2°C and ideally 1.5°C; thus, substantial efforts will be required from the RE and construction sectors. As the World Bank (Undated, cited in WEF, 2016) suggests, to meet the 2°C threshold, a 36% reduction in total carbon emissions will be required by 2030. These implications will, however, be more pronounced in the developing world given its population growth rate in comparison with the advanced world. As the developing world continues to grow, its RE sector will be expanding and, therefore, the need for sustainability in RE cannot be overemphasised. Even cynics about climate change should care about sustainable RE since the market and governments care not just about climate change but also about air and water pollution and toxic substances that make us sick: there is knowledge about ecology and the importance of the environments sufficient to prompt real action, but it is the tendency of humans to maintain the status quo and ignore the long term (Wilkinson et al., 2018)."

This post is a stub prior to my admission into Changi General Hospital for a minor operation on Monday 15 August 2022.  I've also read some parts of the books "Singapore's Real Estate.  50 Years of Transformation" and "Built Up.  A Historical Perspective on the Contemporary Principles and Practices of Real Estate Development" to improve my understanding of real estate.  Here in Singapore, I'm beginning to understand that we are internalising the global overpopulation problem into our country by importing a large proportion of low cost foreign labour from developing countries.  

https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/singapore-foreign-workers-reliance-challenges-722001

An important point to note is how real estate purchases and development is funded. For real estate purchases, it will be helpful to offer greater loan possibilities to citizens, while requiring larger upfront cash amounts for non-citizens. For real estate development, to favour citizens, the developments should be preceded by requiring a larger quota for a minimum number of citizens buying into that real estate. Of course, as a whole, our country should have different quotas on the importation of foreign labour depending on professions. Ultimately, we must not over-develop or develop too fast, because this will lead to more developments in future to renew our infrastructure, which leads to more sustainability problems. Our existing real estate laws are explained here:

https://resourcehub.bakermckenzie.com/en/resources/global-corporate-real-estate-guide/asia-pacific/singapore/topics/real-estate-law

Continuing with Chapter 12 "Sustainability in Real Estate: Conclusions and Prospects" of the book "Sustainable Real Estate in the Developing World" written by Kwasi Gyau Baffour Awuah and Raymond Talinbe Abdulai, an important point relevant to middle to upper income Singapore should be noted:

"Chapter 6 also noted that although eco-cities are embraced in China, it appears they are the preserve of the people within the middle- and upper-income groups."

A later paragraph concluded:

"The reasons for the slow progress with adoption of sustainability principles in urban development and real estate sector in the developing world are several. Chiefly among these reasons are policy challenges, technological constraints, data paucities and financial difficulties. Chapter 6 noted difficulties around gover-nance, especially issues relating to power struggle and relationships, corruption, accountability, access to information, and lack of human and financial resources, as obstacles to deliver sustainable urban futures. Chapters 2, 3, 7 and 10 estab-lished that although some sustainability policies have been rolled out, they are not enough and that policies should seek to include more local content in terms of decision-making and development materials among other things. Furthermore, the issue of not making urban development and real estate activities to meet sustainability criteria compulsory and the high cost of adopting sustainability principles compared to conventional ones as well as the lack of country-wide data on the sustainability status of real estate development and their drivers were highlighted. Chapter 4 also expressed the aforesaid reasons in addition to lack of education and awareness for the promotion of sustainability principles within the real estate sector. The policy failure was again seen in terms of weaknesses in ensuring enforcement and compliance with planning, land acquisition and develop-ment and environment regulations, as well as the complacence of urban development authorities to unhealthy practices (chapters 5 and 10). Part of the weaknesses in ensuring compliance with regulations is attributed to urban authorities’ inade-quate human resources, financial constraints and lack of appropriate tools and procedures."

In the ending sections "12.4 Proposed Solutions" and "12.5 Prospects", some solutions and encouragement was proffered, but none of them addressed the elephant in the room: overpopulation.  Until we could grapple with the lowest hanging fruit of reducing population size, our planet will continue to go through contortions in its ambient system.  And we human beings living in the world will suffer through it all, along with the demise of many species of life and the appearance of mutant species of life better adapted to the new climate.  Concomitantly, mankind's greatest and most efficient organisational, economic and technological solutions may never be able to resolve this problem. The solution to this problem requires global education, understanding and appreciation, to the extent of having lived through it, such that each individual human being can be transformed to a non-overpopulation mindset, or alternatively, we'll have to go the eugenics way. This is also why countries permitting euthanasia are in fact forward looking.


