#christianity
#technology
#life
#data-science
#science

## My understanding of John 1:1–19 in the Bible

This is a scientific and technological reading from:
http://web.mit.edu/jywang/www/cef/Bible/NIV/NIV_Bible/JOHN+1.html

“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.”
Interpretation: In the beginning was the Bible data. This data was God.

“He was with God in the beginning.”
Interpretation: This data originates at the beginning.

“Through him all things were made; without him nothing was made that has been made.”
Interpretation: This data describes all creation.

“In him was life, and that life was the light of men.”
Interpretation: This data defines all life, including that of men.
(Exemplified by the DNA and RNA, not mentioned in the Bible, but proceeding from the data)

“The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it.”
Interpretation: Life changes the darkness of inanimate matter.

“There came a man who was sent from God; his name was John.”
Interpretation: This data manifests in a person called John.

“He came as a witness to testify concerning that light, so that through him all men might believe.”
Interpretation: He brings evidence of the importance of life.

“He himself was not the light; he came only as a witness to the light. The true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world.”
Interpretation: He knows that his life is not as important as another that’s to be born.

“He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him.”
Interpretation: Data comprises and describes the world, but is yet unrecognised.

“He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him.”
Interpretation: Understanding of the data has not been accepted.

“Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God — children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision or a husband’s will, but born of God.”
Interpretation: For those that accepted the data, they are considered children of God, originating from the data.

“The Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the One and Only, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth.”
Interpretation: The person with a good understanding of data is born, originating from data, full of knowledge about reality.

“John testifies concerning him. He cries out, saying, “This was he of whom I said, `He who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me.’””
Interpretation: The person called John admits that this person knows more than him.

“From the fullness of his grace we have all received one blessing after another.”
Interpretation: Because of this person, we have blessings.

“For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.”
Interpretation: This person Jesus Christ brings forth a new understanding of reality.

“No one has ever seen God, but God the One and Only, who is at the Father’s side, has made him known.”
Interpretation: In the past, God is unknown, but now, Jesus Christ teaches about Him.

“Now this was John’s testimony when the Jews of Jerusalem sent priests and Levites to ask him who he was.”
Interpretation: This answer was described by John.

