#euthanasia
#life
#life-lessons
#climate-change
#population

## The Choice of Singlehood and Euthanasia in an Overpopulated Multipolar World

This is a stub post that may change in future, because quite frankly, I’m at a loss as to what to suggest definitively with the current state of the world today.

Does the master-slave dichotomy still exist in the world today? Yes, it does, with the conditions for slaves improving so greatly that they are now not called slaves, but children, employees, subordinates, tenants, followers, servants, consumers and students. Such relationships exist even between groups, organisations and countries at different stages of development. It exists also in the computing products we created.

Are human beings generally still quite stupid? Yes, but as we learn and develop our skills over years of learning and experience, we grow to become more intelligent and generally wiser. Unfortunately, due to our different culture, medical conditions, abilities, beliefs, goals and work in life, different people generally stagnate in different areas. Hence, the resulting diversity in general. However, we still eat, breathe, defecate, and most reproduce.

Is the world overpopulated? SMU’s current Provost Timothy Clark seems to think so in a paper he wrote in 2016.
Timothy Clark, 'But the real problem is....': The Chameleonic Insidiousness of 'Overpopulation' in…
Abstract This paper offers an overview of the chameleonic nature of overpopulation as an environmental issue, and of…

philpapers.org

But this paper has restricted access. An open access article about this topic is provided by Conserve Energy Future:

https://www.conserve-energy-future.com/causes-effects-solutions-of-overpopulation.php

Is the world overpolluted? The World Bank seems to think so.
Pollution
In Bangladesh, the Bank is helping to improve air quality and safe mobility in Dhaka by strengthening air quality…

www.worldbank.org

Will global warming and climate change worsen in the years to come? NASA seems to think so.
The Effects of Climate Change
› en español Global climate change has already had observable effects on the environment. Glaciers have shrunk, ice on…

climate.nasa.gov

Is there loss of biodiversity? The European Commission seems to think so.
Biodiversity loss: what is causing it and why is it a concern? | News | European Parliament
Biodiversity, or the variety of all living things on our planet, has been declining at an alarming rate in recent…

www.europarl.europa.eu

These resulting outcomes of overpopulation, over-pollution, climate change and biodiversity loss is indicative of the lack of collective wisdom in the leaders of this planet, the human beings. It is clear that the evolutionary baggage we carry leads to competition, the survival of the fittest, and the desire to a good life. These in turn leads to the resulting desire for national growth and affluence in all nations and calamity for the planet. In fact, the productivity and scale that cheapens products and services, leads to over-consumption, and is the driving force behind these calamitous outcomes.
Scientists' warning on affluence - Nature Communications
For over half a century, worldwide growth in affluence has continuously increased resource use and pollutant emissions…

www.nature.com

Of course, I’m saying this from the position of someone who has grown up in a small seafaring state that only acquired its independence in 1965, and that has done well, but still possess a gestalt that constantly struggles for survival among some in its population, and tries to be the best in what it does as a whole due to its lack of material resources. We are guilty of being over-efficient.

So should we stop all countries from developing and growing? Are we able to tell our citizens these:
“No, you cannot have children if you have not acquired the wisdom of years of experience in life?”
“Yes, if you are suffering from mental or bodily disorders, where there is no likely cure in the next few years, you can choose euthanasia, or assisted suicide?”

Or must we wait for the pressures of growth and development to lead to local, regional or global conflicts? We must understand now that we can extend our health-span significantly. Aren’t the years of wisdom gleaned over the years much better than producing even more children or simpletons? Shouldn’t we save more people from the constant sufferings in their lives?



